# Standard Template Library (STL)

Created by Alex and Merg who worked at HP
Library of what? --> Generic Classes and functions
Why use STL --> Reuse, well tested Components
            --> Time savings
STL is used because it is a good idea not re-invent the wheel

Components of STL --> Containers   -> Stores data and uses template classes
                  --> Algorithms   -> many already written algo. like sorting, searching, etc. and uses template functions
                  --> Iterators    -> object points to an element in a container, Handled just like pointers
                                    -> connects algorithms with containers

## Containers

STL = Containers + Algorithms + Iterators
        /               |               \
    object which    procedure to      object which points
    stores data     process data      to an element of a container

## Types of Containers

### Sequence Containers

stores data in Linear fashion, eg. list, vector, dequeue,etc.  eg. List: 7->3->54->34->83
1 Vector: Random Access = Fast
          Insertion/deletion around Middle = Slow
          Insertion/deletion at the end = Fast
2 List: Random Access = Slow
        Insertion/deletion around Middle = Fast
        Insertion/deletion at the end = Fast

### Associative Containers

direct access(fast), eg. tree, set, multi-set, map, multi-map,etc.
All operation Insertion/deletion are fast except Random Access.

### Derived Containers

real world modelling, eg. stack, queue, priority queue, etc.
Insertion/deletion time Depends.
